{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2761
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Most of the US has an ethos of infrastructure that emphasizes the car over all other forms of transit. In this project, I wanted to expand my geographic data skills while answering the question of how accessible Portland had made its public transit by walking. Considering buses and trains have to be reached by foot or bike, having a quick walking time is essential to accessible public transit. This is one of my first forays into using Geopandas, OSMNX and networkx, so I left the data exploring process mostly untouched on the Jupyter notebook.\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
 In the Charts folder, each chart is saved as a choropleth with each neighborhood colored based on a bin of density or walk time. Bins were used over a continuous measure to simplify and place neighborhoods into categories instead of using a continuous color scale. \
\
Walking distance was calculated by using a multi-source Dijkstra path using the walkable path network in Portland, which was obtained using networkx\'92s walking network data. Data on Trimet stops was downloaded from Trimet\'92s 2024 stop dataset, which was cleaned with Geopandas to exclude all the non-Portland stops.\
\
I\'92m happy with this end product, but would love to know if there\'92s more complex analysis that can be done to map the walkability scores by neighborhood. Using the centroid ignores population density and geographic features, which I could see obscuring some useful information. The neighborhoods are generally small enough that I don\'92t see that strongly impacting my end results, but if I were to scale this mapping I\'92d want to be able to track walkability more accurately. In addition, this chart only shows how accessible finding any Trimet stop is - but how far is it to a bus that hits a major transit corridor? How many exchanges have to be made, and how does that affect Portland\'92s walkable accessibility? \
\
}